.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2013 Nicola S. Vitale
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" This manual page is derived from cdcontrol(1).
.\"
.\" $Id: ufmcontrol.1,v 1.7 2009/04/09 08:26:39 nivit Exp $
.\"
.Dd $Date: 2009/04/09 08:26:39 $
.Dt UFMCONTROL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ufmcontrol
.Nd "USB FM radio control utility"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hjsv
.Op Fl f Ar device
.Ar command
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is a program to control a FM radio attached
to an USB port.
The
.Ar device
is a name such
as
.Pa ufm0
or
.Pa /dev/ufm1 .
.Pp
If no command is given, then
.Nm
enters an interactive mode, reading commands from the standard input.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl f Ar device"
.It Fl h
Help - print usage.
.It Fl j
Japanese band - set the valid band width to 76 MHz ~ 91 MHz.
.It Fl L
No Locale - disable I18N suppport.
.It Fl s
Silent mode - do not print any information or human readable comments.
.It Fl v
Verbose mode - print as much information as possible.
.It Fl V
Version - print version information of the program.
.It Fl f Ar device
Specify a device, such as
.Pa ufm0
or
.Pa /dev/ufm1 .
Both absolute path and relative to
.Pa /dev
filename are possible.
.El
.Pp
The available commands are listed below.  Only as many
characters as are required to uniquely identify a command
need be specified.
The word
.Cm set
can be omitted.
.Bl -tag -width Cm
.It Cm +
Increment the current frequency by 10 kHz.
.It Cm -
Decrement the current frequency by 10 kHz.
.It Cm device Op Ar filename
If an argument is given, then the current
device is closed,
.Ar filename
opened, and all
successive commands
are sent to it.
Without argument print the current device.
.It Cm get
Get the current frequency.
.It Cm help
Print all the available commands.
.It Cm japan Xo
.Op Ar yes | no
.Xc
Enable/disable the japanese band.
Without argument say if this is set.
.It Cm locale Xo
.Op Ar LOCALE
.Xc
If an argument is given,
then the locale
is set to
.Ar LOCALE ;
otherwise print
the current one.
.It Cm mixer Xo
.Op Ar filename Oo Ar port Oc
.Xc
Set
.Ar filename
as default
mixer device,
using
.Ar port
as
channel.
.It Cm play
Play the radio.
.It Cm quit
Quit the program.
.It Cm port Xo
.Op Ar channel
.Xc
The argument
.Ar channel
is the mixer
channel,
which the radio
is attached to.
Without argument
print the current
one.
.It Cm set Ar frequency
Set the frequency specified in MHz. E.g. 107.05.
The default band is 88.00 MHz ~ 108.00 MHz;
but you can change to 76.00 MHz ~ 91.00 MHz with
the
.Cm japan
command.
.It Cm stereo
Say if the device is in stereo mode or not.
This command may be useful to tune in the
broadcasters.
.It Cm stop
Stop playing.
.It Cm verbose Xo
.Op Ar yes | no
.Xc
Enable/disable the verbose mode.
Without argument say if the program is in verbose
mode or not.
.It Cm volume Xo
.Op Ar <l> Oo Ar <r> Oc | Ar mute
.Xc
Set volume
of the radio,
using the port
choosen with the
.Cm mixer
or
.Cm port
command
(default: line).
Without argument
print
the
current
values.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
following environment
variable affects the
execution of
.Nm :
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width UFM_RADIO -compact
.It Ev UFM_RADIO
The device to use if one is not specified with the
.Fl f
flag.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /dev/ufm0" -compact
.It Pa /dev/ufm0
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
This
manual page was written by
.An Nicola Vitale Aq nivit@users.sourceforge.net
and is derived
from
.Xr cdcontrol 1 .
.Sh BUGS
The
.Cm stereo
command is not very reliable.
